    Introduction
    
    In recent years, an increasing number of Chinese students are choosing to study abroad. Approximately 40% of Chinese students studying abroad choose to pursue their education in North America [1]. The international students not only face language and cultural challenges, but they also need to address financial issues. One of them being currency exchange conflicts.
    In order to pay tuition and living expenses, students have to change their local currency to the target currency. The most important part of currency exchange is finding a lower, suitable and stable period of the foreign exchange rate. This is done because it can cause loss or help students save money.
    However, the foreign exchange rate is volatile as it is influenced by various factors, such as economic indicators, policy changes and market confidence. Therefore, predicting it is highly complex and requires expertise in financial areas with long-term observation of market tendencies. Most international students and their parents do not have the relevant professional knowledge. As a consequence of this, they often miss the best time to exchange currency.
    Nonetheless, recent technological advancement provides other new ways to address this challenge. Machine Learning is one of them. By processing training data, machine learning algorithms build a model that can accurately predict or make decisions. We can collect related data to train a model in order to help students and parents predict the most convenient time to go through with a currency exchange for their own benefit.
    Artificial intelligence (A.I) has developed rapidly in recent times, as there are many applications being created. Our team also wanted to solve real-world problems using machine learning, since the foreign exchange is complex and thought-provoking, so it is a very good practical challenge to tackle. The following chapters will discuss this in more detail.


    Needs Assessment
    
    The  Foreign Exchange Market (FEM), established in 1971, is the largest financial market in the world. Before its establishment, the International Monetary Fund(IMF) controlled the exchange rate. The rate between the US dollar and other countries’ currencies is not allowed to change by more than one percent. The fixed exchange rate under the Bretton Woods System was designed to ensure currency stability [2]. However, with the establishment of the FEM, a new style of exchange rate was adopted specifically, the floating exchange rate, which is decided by the supply and demand relationship, rather than by the IMF. The foreign exchange rate plays a vital role in currency exchange and has remained a floating rate to this day.
    The foreign exchange rate is known for its complexity. and unpredictability. Interest rate is one of the most important factors for determining an exchange rate. Manipulating interest rates is a solution to controlling inflation [3]. We learned from an experienced investor that the  volatility of an interest rate can impact domestic investment desire, as well as in or out of international capital. As a result, the exchange rate fluctuates. For example, some countries adjusted their interest rate to keep the economic balance during COVID-19. Economics is another crucial factor which affects the exchange rate. As a result of the correlation between them, they influence each other. One country’s foreign exchange rate change can also affect the domestic economy. When the rate goes up, the international trade cost goes up. Consequently, the competitiveness will go down and the whole industry will experience a downturn. It can also be affected by many other factors, including political stability, war, market confidence, inflation and other unknown factors. Sometimes, these factors come together instead of appearance alone. In this way, the tendency of foreign exchange rates is hard to predict.
    Our primary user group, Chinese international students in the US and Canada, is chosen because of the substantial challenges they face with the fluctuating exchange rates. From 2010 to 2019, the population of Chinese students studying in the U.S. has grown from 157,558 to 372,532)[4]. Particularly in 2019, approximately one-third of international students in the United States came from China. However, there was a temporary decrease from 2020 to 2023 due to COVID-19, but a recovery has been observed. The trend in the number of Chinese students enrolled in Canadian educational institutions shows a similar pattern, with an estimated count of around 100,010 in 2023. The volatility of exchange rate effects for Chinese international students are significant. In the long term, the rate affects the choice of the country they study abroad[5]. For the short term, the living costs and tuition are affected directly by the change of the rate. If the rate of domestic currency decreases, the students will be charged more money for educational expenses and living costs. On the contrary, students will save money when the rate increases. The students observed range from the high school, undergraduate, and graduate levels. They usually are too young to feed themselves. Consequently, they are supported by their parents. Due to most parents not having professional knowledge about general economics, and the inability to predict the tendency of the rate, they face a potential financial risk of instability of exchange.
    Our second primary user group, Chinese international traders, also faced challenges from the exchange rate volatility. The US dollar is the primary payment mode of global trade around the world, including China. China has become a vital trade partner for many economies, the total value of China’s imports and exports amounted to more than 6.3 trillion U.S. dollars in 2022[6]. Enhancing the fluctuating exchange rate is of great importance to the Chinese international trading industry. A depreciation of the domestic currency affects exports negatively in the short run, but positively in the long run [7]. We also learned from an employee of a US export company that when the rate goes up, import enterprises will benefit, since it is possible to import more cargo, using the same amount of domestic currency. However, the exports will lose competitiveness, because costs will rise since foreign customers would need to pay more objective currency to buy the cargo. Both types of companies have to face the same problem regarding the rate, although the effects for them are entirely opposite. Thus, they care about the tendency of the rate so they can make management strategies.
    Machine Learning provides a powerful tool for foreign exchanging predicting. With the rise of A.I, some people are using Machine Learning algorithms to predict the tendency of foreign exchange rates. Because it can form summary complex patterns by giving data. Machine learning models show higher accuracy in the short-term than in the long-term, in regard to prediction, due to noise[8]. There are some existing software providing forecasts of the exchange rate. Whereas, if their prediction period is vague or if the forecast range of trends is too broad. Most of them are not helpful. We intend to make improvements by following two aspects.  Firstly, using other algorithms compare to LSTM. Secondly, we will use a wider range of relevant economic data to train and do more feature engineering. By observation of the result, we can determine the better solution.



    Impact Assessment

    Predicting the exchange rate accurately can assist international students by minimizing the chances of facing potential financial risks. A study shows that on average, students estimate their total expenses during their degree program to be around USD99,417, which includes tuition and living costs[9]. Especially for students attending private schools in big international cities, such as New York City, Los Angeles, and Toronto; tuition fees alone can exceed 40,000 US dollars per year, with the cost of living already being very high. Such a high level of expenditure often leads to considerable financial stress for many international students' families. Our project can help them avoid financial uncertainties.
    By utilizing AI to address challenges, which cannot be solved efficiently by adapting conventional methods, our application may inspire people to solve other problems related to AI. People usually think they can only handle problems in areas they are proficient in. However, Alpha Go demonstrates that it is possible to address real-world problems that one is not familiar with, by using machine learning. Alpha GO was developed by a group of AI experts who are skilled Go players, using deep learning algorithm to defeat the human world champion in the game of Go. It has motivated many people to apply A.I in problem-solving. I believe that our project will offer a fresh perspective and inspire more people.
    Precise currency rate predictions have a beneficial effect on China's international trade activities. According to data from the world bank, China's international trade volume accounts for 37% of its Gross Domestic Product in 2021[10]. The significant contribution illustrates that fluctuation of the exchange rate can affect the overall health of the economy. If exchange rates are predicted accurately, trades can better manage the cost and return on international transactions and make sensible operating strategies. Therefore, currency rate forecasts play a very important role in the realm of economics.
